INSTALL Documentation for EmberMUD 0.9.47

This document was prepared for the 0.9.47 release of the EmberMUD source
code.  It will be updated as the code is updated.   In addition to the
releases of EmberMUD, EmberMUD maintains a CVS repository on
sourceforge.net.

This is not intended to be the ONLY documentation you read, but sufficient
to get you started, and an EmberMUD running.

All OSes
------------

1.  Obtain the latest release or cvs code from the EmberMUD project.  It
is plausible that you may run across this document seperate from the
release, or a less than current version of EmberMUD.   The two locations
to look are: http://www.embermud.org and
http://sourceforge.net/projects/embermud.

2.  Uncompress the archive if compressed.  In the case of Win32 versions
this is generally zip, or the source code is often tar'd and gzipped.  For
Windows, open with your favorite zip utility.   Winzip will handle tar.gz
files.   For Unix, the following command should be used:

tar -xvzf EmberMUD-0.9.47.tar.gz

3.  This will create a EmberMUD directory with the current code in it.  If
you wish to obtain a copy via CVS, we recomend following the directions on
the sourceforge page for doing so.   Occasional requests will be honored
to send a tar.gz of the current cvs code, if you ask Dorzak.

4.  READ THE DOCUMENTATION.  It is recomended that your read the current
versions README file, and look at the Changelog. The Changelog tracks
changes to EmberMUD all the way back.

5.  In the /src directory, edit the config.h options to suit how you would
like your mud to be.  The options in here include MAX_LEVEL, how recall,
pk, looting, channels, and lots more will be handled.  Before you go
adding a snippet to turn on or off a feature, we recomend that you take a
look at the options alread there in config.h

6.  If using cygwin, or a server which does not include the crypt
libraries, add the line -DNOCRYPT to the NOCRYPT line of the
makefile.  Due to export restrictions not all version of Unix, Linux or
related tools will include the crypt library for legal reasons.   All this
essentially will do is affect if passwords are saved in clear text or
encrypted in the pfiles.

7.  Compile the MUD.

    Unix
    ----
    Type make while in the source directory.

    Windows With Cygwin
    -------------------
    Type make while in the source directory.

    Windows with Microsoft Visual C++
    ---------------------------------
    1.  Double click on the Ember.dsp file. In the MSVC directory.
        Then Push F7 to compile.
    2.  Repeat for StarMUD.dsp in the StartMUD directory.

    Windows with Borland C Builder
    ------------------------------
    This one allows you to compile a GUI control port to Ember.  Zak will
    have to give the details to how to compile.


8.  Start the MUD. 
    
    Unix
    ----
    In the src directory ls -l startup and make sure it is executable,
    if it is not, type:
      chmod u+x startup
    If you are on a commercial server and are not going to use the 
    default port of 9005, you should edit the port line in the startup
    file.   This is especially important if you are hosted on a 
    commercial server which may already have port 9005 assigned.
    Then in the src directory type the following command, to start it in
    the background, and not have it quite when you exit the server.   
      nohup ./startup &

    Win32 Compiled with Cygwin
    --------------------------
    Not sure of the differences, if any.

    Win32 Compiled with MSVC++
    --------------------------
    Double click on the startmud.exe file in the src directory.

    Win32 Compiled with BCB
    -------------------------
    Double Click on EmberGUI.exe I believe.


9.  Log into the MUD and Create a character, then logout.

10. Edit your pfile.  You will want to change the level to whatever you
    set MAX_LEVEL to in config.h.  The default is 60.  In addition you
    will want to replace the following:

    #IMM
    End
    #END

    with:
#IMM
mpstat wizrevoke wizgrant disable pload
punload at goto sockets wizhelp
askill divorce marry murder clan
advance award hotboot trust allow
ban permban cut deny disconnect
freeze reboot repop sinfo set
shutdown wizlock force load newlock
nochannels noemote noshout notell pecho
pardon purge restore slay teleport
transfer objcheck poofin poofout gecho
holylight log memory mwhere owhere
peace echo repeat return snoop
stat string switch wizinvis jail
vnum clone immtalk imotd beacon
chaos aexits aentrances edit asave
alist resets rlist splist sklist
lastimm hotboo mortslay End
#END

11.  Log into the MUD and you should be ready.


The EmberMUD Team
-----------------

  Zak            Kevin Williams     zak@embermud.org
  Zane           EJ Wilburn         zane@embermud.org
  Lancelight     Ryan Coulombe      lance@embermud.org
  Dorzak         Nathan Cookson     dorzak@embermud.org

